```eval_rst
.. admonition:: v2.x Upgrade to v3.0.0-rc1

    - **Comprehensive upgrade** : Refer to 'Build the first blockchain network <.. /.. / quick _ start / air _ installation.html >' _ Build a new blockchain and resubmit all historical transactions to the new node. The upgraded node contains v3.0.0-rc1 new features

    - v3.0.0-rc1 does not include the "FISCO BCOS Max" version, the Max version of FISCO BCOS will be available in subsequent versions

    - `v3.0.0-rc1 Release Note <https://github.com/FISCO-BCOS/FISCO-BCOS/releases/tag/v3.0.0-rc1>`_
```

## Change Description

**Microservices architecture**
- Provides common block-linked entry specifications。
- Provide a management platform, users can deploy, expand, access to interface granularity monitoring information。

**deterministic multi-contract parallelism**
- Easy to use: The underlying blockchain automatically parallelizes without the need for users to provide conflicting fields in advance.。
- Efficient: transactions within the block are not executed repeatedly, there is no pre-execution or pre-analysis process。
- Generic: Can be used regardless of EVM, WASM, Precompiled, or other contracts。

**Blockchain File System**
- Introduce the concept of file system to organize on-chain resources, users can browse on-chain resources like files。
- Based on the blockchain file system to achieve management functions, such as partitioning, permissions, etc., more intuitive。

**pipelined PBFT consensus**
- Transaction sequencing and transaction execution are independent of each other, realizing pipeline architecture and improving resource utilization.。
- Supports batch consensus and parallel consensus processing on blocks to improve performance。
- Supports a single consensus leader to continuously issue blocks to improve performance。

**WeBankBlockchain-Liquid(WBC for short-Liquid)**
- Integrated WASM runtime environment with WBC support-Liquid Smart Contract。
- WBC-Liquid smart contract supports intelligent analysis of conflict fields and automatically opens DAG。


**Compatibility**

3.0.0-rc1 version is incompatible with 2.x version data and protocol, Solidity contract source code is compatible。If you are upgrading from version 2.x to 3.0.0-rc1 version, data migration is required。

|            | Recommended Version| Minimum Version| Description|
|------------|--------------------------|-----------|------|
| Console| 3.0.0-rc1                | 3.0.0-rc1 |      |
| Java SDK   | 3.0.0-rc1                | 3.0.0-rc1 |      |
| CPP SDK    | 3.0.0-rc1                | 3.0.0-rc1 |      |
| Console    | 3.0.0-rc1                | 3.0.0-rc1 |      |
| WeBASE     | lab-rc1                  | lab-rc1   |      |
| Solidity   | Maximum support solidity 0.6.10| 0.6.00    |      |
| WBC-Liquid | 1.0.0-rc2                | 1.0.0-rc2 |      |
