# v3.0.0

```eval_rst
.. admonition:: v2.x Upgrade to v3.0.0

    - **Comprehensive upgrade** : Refer to 'Build the first blockchain network <.. /.. / quick _ start / air _ installation.html >' _ Build a new blockchain and resubmit all historical transactions to the new node. The upgraded node contains v3.0.0-rc3 new features

    - v3.0.0 and v3.0.0-rc*Incompatible, interversion compatibility support starting with this version

    - `v3.0.0 Release Note <https://github.com/FISCO-BCOS/FISCO-BCOS/releases/tag/v3.0.0>`_
```



## New Architecture

**Air / Pro / Max** Meet different deployment scenarios

- **Air**: Traditional blockchain architecture, all functions in one blockchain node (all-in-one) to meet the deployment needs of developers and simple scenarios
- **Pro**: Gateway+ RPC + Blockchain nodes to meet the needs of isolated deployment of internal and external environments
- **Max**: Gateway+ RPC + Blockchain node (master / standby)+ Multiple transaction executors to meet the demand for high availability and extreme performance

## new mechanism

**Process: Pipeline Consensus**

Generate blocks in a pipelined manner to improve performance

- Divide the block generation process into four stages: packaging, consensus, execution, and placement.
- Consecutive blocks are executed in a pipelined manner through four stages (103 in packaging, 102 in consensus, 101 in execution, and 100 in drop)
- Performance approaches the performance of the longest execution phase in the pipeline when consecutive blocks are released

**Execution: deterministic multi-contract parallelism**

Mechanisms for implementing parallel execution and scheduling of inter-contract transactions

- Efficient: Transactions on different contracts can be executed in parallel, improving transaction processing efficiency
- Easy to use: transparent to developers, automatic transaction parallel execution and conflict processing
- Generic: Supports EVM, WASM, Precompiled, or other contracts

**Storage: KeyPage**

Cache mechanism for reference memory pages for efficient blockchain storage

* The key-value is stored in pages
* Improve the locality of memory access and reduce the storage space occupation

**Inheritance and Upgrade**

* DAG parallel execution: no longer rely on the parallel programming framework, can automatically generate conflict parameters based on the solidity code, to achieve parallel execution of transactions within the contract.
* PBFT consensus algorithm: immediate consensus algorithm for second-level confirmation of transactions
* For more information, please refer to the online documentation.

## New Features

**Blockchain File System**

Use the command line to manage blockchain resources, such as contracts, tables, etc.

- Commands: pwd, cd, ls, tree, mkdir, ln
- Function: the contract address and path binding, you can use the path to call the contract

**Permission governance**

After the blockchain is enabled, multi-party voting is required to allow

* Roles: Administrator, Administrator, User
* Controlled operations: deployment contracts, contract interface calls, system parameter settings, etc.

**WBC-Liquid：WeBankBlockchain-Liquid(WBC for short-Liquid)**

It not only supports Soldity to write contracts, but also supports Rust to write contracts.

- Liquid is a smart contract programming language based on the Rust language.
- Integrated WASM runtime environment with WBC support-Liquid Smart Contract。
- WBC-Liquid smart contract supports intelligent analysis of conflict fields and automatically opens DAG。

**Inheritance and Upgrade**

* Solidity: currently supported up to version 0.8.11
* CRUD: Use table structure to store data, which is more friendly to business development, and more easy-to-use interfaces are encapsulated in 3.0
* AMOP: On-chain messenger protocol, which enables information transmission and data communication between applications accessing the blockchain through the P2P network of the blockchain.
* Disk encryption: The private key and data of the blockchain node are encrypted and stored in the physical hard disk, and the physical hardware cannot be decrypted even if it is lost.
* Cryptographic algorithm: built-in group ring signature and other cryptographic algorithms, can achieve a variety of secure multi-party computing scenarios
* For more information, please refer to the online documentation.

## Compatibility

Version 3.0 is not compatible with previous versions of data and protocols, Solidity contract source code compatible。If you want to upgrade from version 2.0 to version 3.0, you need to do data migration。

|            | Recommended Version| Minimum Version| Description|
| ---------- | --------- | ------------------------ | ---------------------------------- |
| Java SDK   | 3.0.0     | 3.0.0                    |                                    |
| CPP SDK    | 3.0.0     | 3.0.0                    |                                    |
| Console    | 3.0.0     | 3.0.0                    |                                    |
| Solidity   | 0.8.11    | Minimum 0.4.25, maximum 0.8.11| The compiler (console) needs to be downloaded according to the contract version|
| WBC-Liquid | 1.0.0-rc3 | 1.0.0-rc3                |                                    |
