# v3.2.1

#### Repair

* Fix BFS unavailability and inconsistent chain execution triggered by using the '3.2.0' version binary to change the chain version number from '3.0.0' to '3.1.0' and above
* Fix the problem of network disconnection caused by abnormal parsing of 'P2P' message
* Fixes an issue where the 'StateStorage' read operation commits while causing the iterator to fail
* Fixed the problem that the node private key file 'node.pem' was not generated during the 'Pro' version expansion operation and the expansion failed

#### Compatibility

* Historical Version Upgrade

  The "data compatibility version number ([compatibility _ version] of the chain that needs to be upgraded"(#id5)) "is the following version.

  * 3.2.1: The data is fully compatible with the current version, and the upgrade can be completed by directly replacing the binary
  * 3.1.x / 3.0.x: supports gray-scale upgrade by replacing the binary. If you need to use the new features of the current version, you need to upgrade the data-compatible version number. See [Document](#id5)
  * 3.0-rc x: The data is incompatible and cannot be upgraded. You can consider gradually migrating your business to the 3.x official version.
  * 2.x: data is not compatible, 2.x version is still maintained, you can consider upgrading to the latest version of 2.x

* Component compatibility

|            | Recommended Version| Minimum Version| Description|
| ---------- | ----------- | ------------------------ | ---------------------------------- |
| Console    | 3.2.0       | 3.0.0                    |                                    |
| Java SDK   | 3.2.0       | 3.0.0                    |                                    |
| CPP SDK    | 3.2.0       | 3.0.0                    |                                    |
| Solidity   | 0.8.11      | Minimum 0.4.25, maximum 0.8.11| The compiler (console) needs to be downloaded according to the contract version|
| WBC-Liquid | 1.0.0-rc3   | 1.0.0-rc3                |                                    |
| WeBASE     | 3.0.2       | 3.0.2                    |                                    |
| WeIdentity | v3.0.0-rc.1 | v3.0.0-rc.1              |                                    |

#### Upgrade Method

This operation only supports upgrading version 3.x to this version, not 3.0-Upgrade of rc or 2.x。

##### Query data compatibility version number (compatibility _ version)

Use [console](https://fisco-bcos-doc.readthedocs.io/zh_CN/latest/docs/operation_and_maintenance/console/console_commands.html#getsystemconfigbykey)Query, such as the current version returned is 3.0.0

``` 
[group0]: /apps>  getSystemConfigByKey compatibility_version
3.0.0
```

##### Replace Node Binary

Need to be**All Nodes**Gradually replace the binary with the current version。In order not to affect the business, the replacement process can be done in grayscale, replacing and restarting nodes one by one。During the replacement process, the current chain continues to execute with the logic of the old data-compatible version number.。After the binary replacement of all nodes is completed and restarted, you need to use the console to modify the data compatibility version number to the current version。

##### Set the data compatibility version number (compatibility _ version)

Use [console](https://fisco-bcos-doc.readthedocs.io/zh_CN/latest/docs/operation_and_maintenance/console/console_commands.html#setsystemconfigbykey)Set the data compatibility version number. For example, the current version is 3.2.0.。

```
[group0]: /apps>  setSystemConfigByKey compatibility_version 3.2.0
{
    "code":0,
    "msg":"success"
}

Note: If the permission governance function is enabled, you need to use the setSysConfigProposal command
```

Set successfully, query again, the current version has been upgraded to 3.2.0

``` 
[group0]: /apps>  getSystemConfigByKey compatibility_version
3.2.0
```

The current chain has been upgraded, so far,**The chain continues to run with new logic**and supports new features。

