# v3.2.0

#### New

* CRUD adds more interfaces
* In-Gateway Whitelist
* Adapted hardware encryption machine
* Adapt to Kirin operating system
* Add an analysis cache for EVM to reduce the execution overhead of large contracts
* Configurable upper limit of out-of-block time
* Data Archiving Tools
* tikv read and write tools
* Max supports manual deployment

#### Change

* Important fields in the configuration file remove default values and must be configured in the configuration file
* INFO Log Optimizing Log Size

#### Repair

* Message routing problem with more than 3 levels of jump
* Transaction hash verification problem of rpc sendTransaction interface

#### Compatibility

* Historical Version Upgrade

  The "data compatibility version number ([compatibility _ version] of the chain that needs to be upgraded"(#id5)) "is the following version.

  * 3.2.0: The data is fully compatible with the current version, and the upgrade can be completed by directly replacing the binary
  * 3.1.x / 3.0.x: supports gray-scale upgrade by replacing the binary. If you need to use the new features of the current version, you need to upgrade the data-compatible version number. See [Document](#id5)
  * 3.0-rc x: The data is incompatible and cannot be upgraded. You can consider gradually migrating your business to the 3.x official version.
  * 2.x: data is not compatible, 2.x version is still maintained, you can consider upgrading to the latest version of 2.x

* Component compatibility

|            | Recommended Version| Minimum Version| Description|
| ---------- | --------- | ------------------------ | --------------------------------------- |
| Console    | 3.2.0     | 3.0.0                    |                                         |
| Java SDK   | 3.2.0     | 3.0.0                    |                                         |
| CPP SDK    | 3.2.0     | 3.0.0                    |                                         |
| Solidity   | 0.8.11    | Minimum 0.4.25, maximum 0.8.11| The compiler (console) needs to be downloaded according to the contract version|
| WBC-Liquid | 1.0.0-rc3 | 1.0.0-rc3                |                                         |
| WeBASE     | -         | -                        | A compatible bug exists. We recommend that you upgrade the node binary to 3.2.1.+ |
| WeIdentity | -         | -                        | A compatible bug exists. We recommend that you upgrade the node binary to 3.2.1.+ |

#### Upgrade Method

This operation only supports upgrading version 3.x to this version, not 3.0-Upgrade of rc or 2.x。

##### Query data compatibility version number (compatibility _ version)

Use [console](https://fisco-bcos-doc.readthedocs.io/zh_CN/latest/docs/operation_and_maintenance/console/console_commands.html#getsystemconfigbykey)Query, such as the current version returned is 3.0.0

``` 
[group0]: /apps>  getSystemConfigByKey compatibility_version
3.0.0
```

##### Replace Node Binary

Need to be**All Nodes**Gradually replace the binary with the current version。In order not to affect the business, the replacement process can be done in grayscale, replacing and restarting nodes one by one。During the replacement process, the current chain continues to execute with the logic of the old data-compatible version number.。After the binary replacement of all nodes is completed and restarted, you need to use the console to modify the data compatibility version number to the current version。

##### Set the data compatibility version number (compatibility _ version)

Use [console](https://fisco-bcos-doc.readthedocs.io/zh_CN/latest/docs/operation_and_maintenance/console/console_commands.html#setsystemconfigbykey)Set the data compatibility version number. For example, the current version is 3.2.0.。

```
[group0]: /apps>  setSystemConfigByKey compatibility_version 3.2.0
{
    "code":0,
    "msg":"success"
}

Note: If the permission governance function is enabled, you need to use the setSysConfigProposal command
```

Set successfully, query again, the current version has been upgraded to 3.2.0

``` 
[group0]: /apps>  getSystemConfigByKey compatibility_version
3.2.0
```

The current chain has been upgraded, so far,**The chain continues to run with new logic**and supports new features。
