# FISCO BCOS helps Shenzhen crack the problem of benign exit of online loans

Special reporter Shen Yong

The underlying open source platform of FISCO BCOS blockchain adds another blockbuster application in the financial field！Landing online lending institution voting system, effectively solve the problem of difficult decision-making in the process of benign exit of online lending platform。The system took the lead in Shenzhen in the first half of this year and is expected to be extended to the whole country。

The following is a report on the successful application of Shenzhen, the content of the self-reading special news。Original title: "Shenzhen successfully applied blockchain technology to crack the benign exit problem of online lending"

------

Although blockchain technology is booming, Shenzhen has successfully applied it to the benign exit of online lending institutions。Reporters yesterday from the Shenzhen local financial supervision bureau was informed that in the first half of this year, Shenzhen took the lead in the country to launch blockchain technology as the core of the P2P lending institutions benign exit unified voting system, has been in the city's 20 online lending institutions into the application, the introduction of more than 80,000 lenders, the principal to be collected more than 10.2 billion yuan。

## Voting system gives thousands of lenders "voting rights"

How do ordinary lenders express their opinions and demands in the face of the withdrawal of online lenders？In the first half of this year, under the guidance and promotion of local financial regulatory authorities at the Shenzhen and district levels, Shenzhen took the lead in launching a unified voting system for the benign exit of P2P lending institutions (hereinafter referred to as the "voting system")。

The system is a supporting technical support platform for the "Guidelines for the Benign Exit of Online Lending Information Intermediaries in Shenzhen" (hereinafter referred to as the "Benign Exit Guidelines"), which aims to effectively solve the problem of difficult decision-making by the public in the process of benign exit of the platform, and has started a "cannon" for the benign exit of online lending。

"The primary problem facing the benign exit of P2P lending institutions is the difficulty of decision-making by stakeholders。"Shenzhen Internet Finance Association Secretary-General Zeng Guang introduced that the ownership of assets managed by online lending institutions belongs to the lender, but the number of lenders is huge, distributed throughout the country, the structure is complex and the demands are different, the platform and the lender communication costs are high, the lender does not trust the platform。

In order to provide unified rules for stakeholder decision-making, the Shenzhen Internet Finance Association took the lead in launching the "Benign Exit Guidelines," setting up an innovative lender supervision committee, "two-thirds plus more than half" voting rules and a series of benign exit rules requirements。

On the basis of the Benign Exit Guidelines, the "Voting System for Online Lending Institutions" has been re-introduced to make it possible to vote on matters of significant interest to lenders。"In the actual operation of previous lender voting, voting was often conducted through the voting software of WeChat groups, QQ groups, social networking sites, and on-site meetings of a few representatives, whose legitimacy and impartiality were questioned, and the implementation process was often repeated。In this case, the new voting system provides voting services for lenders and is committed to achieving a fair, open and transparent voting environment。The Lender Oversight Committee is responsible for auditing and supervising related matters, and online lending institutions authorize associations to provide information disclosure and voting services。

The reporter learned that there are already 20 online lending institutions in Shenzhen using the voting system。Zeng Guang introduced, "Most of the online lending institutions using the voting system have actively promoted the first voting on major matters in accordance with the requirements of the Exit Guidelines, confirmed the exit process, elected the members of the Supervisory Committee and authorized the liquidation group and the Supervisory Committee。In addition, some platforms have completed the second round of voting through the voting system, and the benign exit work of each platform is progressing in an orderly manner。

## **Block chain technology good steel used on the blade**

The application of blockchain technology is the "online lending institution voting system" to crack the difficult decision-making of stakeholders。It is reported that the voting system is based on the FISCO BCOS blockchain open source underlying platform, while the introduction of artificial intelligence, biometrics, digital authentication and other leading domestic technologies, with completely independent intellectual property rights。

FISCO BCOS blockchain open source underlying platform led by the financial blockchain cooperation alliance (Shenzhen) (referred to as the "gold chain alliance") open source working group launched。FISCO BCOS code has been fully open source in 2017 and continues to be iteratively updated, and currently its open source community has tens of thousands of community members, more than 500 companies have participated, successfully landing more than 60 production environment application cases, and has developed into the largest and most active domestic alliance chain open source ecosystem。

The voting system of online lending institutions has successfully used the technical achievements of the platform in its design, and integrates a number of other cutting-edge technologies to create a multifunctional voting decision-making system that is pure online, intelligent, with the participation of the government and financial institutions, and has the effect of judicial arbitration。

First, the voting system introduces intelligent voice interactive robots and online face recognition technology to build a voter identification chain and record voter identification。On the one hand, by using the robot to interact with the lender voice, confirm the debt information and keep the voice record；On the other hand, the use of face recognition and digital certificate authentication to confirm the identity of the lender, and the voter's identity record on the blockchain, not only to prevent the voting process there are others to fake the situation, but also to avoid the voter's all sensitive information on the chain, while protecting user privacy, to ensure the credibility of the voting results。

Secondly, the voting system makes full use of the technical advantages of blockchain technology to prevent tampering and decentralization to build a judicial depository arbitration chain。By summarizing all voting records and results on the chain, the results of each vote are recorded accurately and cannot be tampered with, also while protecting user privacy；At the same time, each deposit has an authoritative arbitration institution to participate in the chain of judicial deposit, from a legal point of view to ensure the preservation of the evidence of the voting results, and ultimately to ensure the judicial validity and authenticity of the whole process of voting data。

Finally, the voting system has also set up an independent voting verification service, through which anyone can verify whether the data of the voting system and the data stored on the blockchain are consistent, so as to supervise the entire voting process from everyone's point of view and enhance the credibility of the voting results。