# [v2.5.0](https://github.com/FISCO-BCOS/FISCO-BCOS/releases/tag/v2.5.0)

```eval_rst
.. admonition:: v2.4.x upgraded to v2.5.0

    - **Compatible upgrade** ：Directly replace the binary of the v2.4.x node with the `v2.5.0 binary <https://github.com/FISCO-BCOS/FISCO-BCOS/releases/download/v2.5.0/fisco-bcos.tar.gz>`_ , the upgraded version fixes bugs in v2.4.x.

    - **Full upgrade** ：Refer to `Installation <../ installation.html>`_ to build a new chain and resubmit all historical transactions to the new node. The upgraded node includes new features in v2.5.0

    - `v2.4.0 Release Note <https://github.com/FISCO-BCOS/FISCO-BCOS/releases/tag/v2.5.0>`_
```

## Change description

**Added**

- Add precompiled contract, address 0x5, implement modular exponential calculation.
- Add precompiled contract, address 0x6, implement point addition (ADD) of elliptic curve alt_bn128.
- Add precompiled contract, address 0x7, implement the scalar multiplication (MUL) of elliptic curve alt_bn128.
- Add precompiled contract, address 0x8, implement a pairing function on a specific pairing-friendly elliptic curve for zkSNARK verification.
- Add precompiled contract, address 0x9, implement blake2 hash function.
- [Add flow control to achieve configurable node output bandwidth and maximum QPS](../design/features/flow_control.md)
- [Add ChainGovernance precompiled contract, address 0x1008, to implement role-based authority management](../design/security_control/chain_governance.md)
- [Add SDK connection node supports OSCCA-approved SSL, can be configured whether to enable](../manual/configuration.html#id10)
- [Add account management to freeze and unfreeze accounts](../design/features/account_management.md)

**Changed**

- In MySQL storage mode, the field type of the contract table is changed to mediumblob.
- [The OSCCA-approved cryptography is modified from the compile option to the configuration item.](../manual/configuration.html#id10)
- [Change the node to only accept the SDK connection of the same institution, can be configured whether to enable](../manual/configuration.html#p2p)
- Paillier homomorphic encryption and group signature are enabled by default.
- The build_chain script uses the private key as the root certificate and institution certificate of secp256k1.
- The storage of PBFTBackup was changed from LevelDB to RocksDB.
- Refactor the libdevcrypto module, optimize the code structure, and use TASSL to implement OSCCA-approved SSL and non-national TLS connections.
- Optimize lock implementation of storage module openTable.
- Optimize block data encoding to parallel.
- Optimize the large object destructor to asynchronous.
- Optimize log output mechanism to reduce the impact of log output on performance.
- Optimize the number of threads of MHD and transaction pool modules to reduce memory usage.
- Optimize MySQL storage adapter implementation, optimized ZdbStorage code implementation.

**Fixed**

- Fix an issue where the Entry was modified in the same block, and subsequent transactions query the Entry result error.
- Fix the issue that transactions in non-leader node transaction pool cannot be packaged under Raft consensus.
- Fix a deadlock issue with CachedStorage.
- Fix the problem of recovering from Binlog when Binlog is turned on in some extreme cases.
- Fix an issue that Viewchange was rejected after a node restart under certain circumstances the view could not be restored quickly.

**Compatibility**

The old version can directly replace the program upgrade


|                    | Recommended version | Minimum version | Description                                                  |
| ------------------ | ------------------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| console            | 1.0.10              | 1.0.4           |                                                              |
| SDK                | 2.5.0               | 2.0.4           |                                                              |
| generator          | 1.5.0               | 1.2.0           | To use latest generator, please clone from master branch of generator repo. |
| FISCO BCOS browser | 2.0.2               | 2.0.0-rc2       |                                                              |
| Solidity           | up to 0.5.2         | 0.4.11          |                                                              |

**Compatibility mode rollback to v2.4.x method**

After a node is upgraded from v2.4.x to v2.5.0 in compatibility mode, the rollback can be completed directly by replacing the node binary back to v2.4.x.

